all right I have the pleasure of
introducing Indira algra andira is the
artist uh who created
teer andira who goes by they them
pronouns is an artist and founder of
endira algra Studio A Design Studio
using weaving as ritual conceptual
framework to craft living structures of
the Loom and in the world they have been
the recipient of numerous Awards
including creative Capital United States
artist Fellowship Burke prize derbo
choreographer award Mike Kelly artist PR
project Grant scholarship and the cryp
tech metaverse Fellowship welcome
everyone in DEA
[Applause]
alra I have a oh we need a mic for
and
sure hello
hello Andre this one great here you
go yeah it doesn't ah there we
go wonderful good afternoon thank you so
much for
coming
so the practice of weaving is 30,000
years
old whereas alpha numeric writing is
only 5500 years
old we borrow from the architecture of
weaving to know how to tell
story either writing along the WFT line
from right to left or left to right or
riding along the warp line from top to
bottom weaving is one of our first
Technologies for encoding stories and
values which are larger than our
individual bodies into another
form the Palestinian CFA has become an
important symbol of resistance warned
protests and demonstrations
handmade Palestine where this photo
comes from is located in
rala British authorities banned the cafa
during the British mandate a
geopolitical entity established between
1920 and
1948 in the region of Palestine under
the terms of the League of Nations
mandate for
Palestine in protest Palestinians wore
the cafa to make it harder to identify
resistance Fighters
this humble cloth continued to carry
great symbolic power during the first
intifa in
1987 the second intifa in 2000 and among
International uprisings for Palestinian
sovereignty currently gaining
momentum to weave is to embed
geopolitical history emotion experiences
of loss pride and personal memory into
something which speaks to a greater
whole which is why I use weaving as a
framework for tary a tapestry is a
forest teer a tapestry is a forest is a
new kind of virtual memorial space which
offers users a healing contemplative
environment to reflect on shared
experiences of loss through
movement texer is a Latin verb which
means to weave and it is where words
like text and textile originate
from Tere began as an art-based mental
health platform at texer
dospace which weaves digital Memorial
tapestries from words and images about
people's
losses Taria tapestry is a forest expand
two-dimensional weaving into a
three-dimensional
metaverse where the vertical threads of
a digital Memorial tapestry appear as
the trees in a
forest and the horizontal threads are
made by Pathways created as one moves
through the environment to leave
commemorative notes
behind wherever I am invited to speak or
make work in the world I find a
labyrinth to walk with a question or
concern in my heart and return from my
contemplative Journey With A New
Perspective on the situation at hand and
with a state change in my
body like a labyrinth teer a tapestry is
a forest offers an environment through
which individuals can make a
contemplative path path through and to a
center or to and from A Center by
stepping down into a Memorial Forest and
returning by ascending the stairs with
whatever realization or new feeling
State they have received through their
journey to this project I bring an
archive of contemplative and sematic
practice 12 years of serving people as a
yoga instructor working primarily with
hate crime survivors people with
traumatic brain injury and beloveds
surviving
cancer 15 years of meditation experience
and a diverse dance and performance
background which includes BH Katherine
Dunham technique aerial arts and
performance
art I bring my own experience of
synesthesia and an autistic desire to
stem visually and through
sound I also bring the somatic
experience of illness as a person with
long Co and as a person who has had
tumor after tumor removed from my
body I bring the experience of knowing
what it is like to receive blood
transfusions and to be on life
support but with the privilege that the
hospital I was in would continue to be
protected and have the power to care for
me
me our hearts mourn for those in Gaza
for whom this is not the
case whether
internally or
externally it is movement work which
allows us to metabolize experiences of
grief and loss and to transform it into
something
new the first step is to start with an
intention begin on the upper platform by
holding a loss of any size you have
experienced in your
heart as you start your journey down
toward the center acknowledge and accept
that this loss has
happened and notice how you feel in your
body so because I have my yoga teacher
voice on for you
today we're going to practice you're
welcome um we're actually going to
practice that first First Step which is
just understanding what's happening
internally and I feel like I'm a a
person that cares a lot about the inner
life of people places and things so I'm
both a guardian and a gardener of the
inner
life so you can take a moment if you
want to close your eyes you're welcome
to do so or you can just lower
them and let your gaze get really
soft and maybe instead of individual
details things can kind of soften into
form and
color maybe there's a temperature which
is associated with what you
see and without
judgment begin to check in on your
breathing
how is your heartbeating right
now how does the temperature
feel what can you
hear what can you
see is there any motion
there does that emotion have a
name this has been a short exploration
so thank yourself for Having the courage
to drop
in
and it's with that kind of internal
curiosity that I invite people um to
enter this
space the Memorial
Forest is available to
you as is the
meadow so that you might receive sound
from the space in response to the
contemplative path that you make
you can read and leave commemorative
messages under the water fountain or
notes throughout the forest related to
your loss and your experience of loss or
maybe you want to leave a note of
encouragement for someone else to
come many of the trees themselves take
their color from photographs uploaded
into the environment which represent
experiences of emotional social and
individual
loss
in this way much like the ancient
redwoods they hold the memory of human
and the more than human experience for
years to
come your Pathways in this environment
make momentary weavings between trees
and flowers which offer their own
healing voices in response at
528 Hertz of frequency delicately
crafted by my sound designer Amanda
Gregory to reduce quarters levels in the
body and calm the nervous
system as you ascend the steps and
return from the
center leaving the forest in the metal
below and you take off the
headset ask
yourself what Sensations do you feel in
your body now that you did not
before you're welcome to to take a stone
from the bowl there's a little Stone out
there or a bowl of stones out there to
remember the
experience think about the number of
people who have worked behind the scenes
so that you might be able to experience
something new in your
body and I think that um
Alex should be up here and Roy should be
up here too so forgive me for anyone
else whose names I have forgotten
but a big thank you a lot of people
um have collaborated and and thought
about this at all hours of the day in
all sorts of different time zones in
order to offer you an
experience but what about this
connection between technology as we know
it today and
weaving we can start
here ancient Egyptians take their looms
for weaving linen into the ground and on
the left you can see Weavers lifting the
warp threads to pass the W
through on the right you can see flax
seed being prepared and spun into linen
thread the Taren dress is an
example of the kinds of garments these
ancient Weavers would have been using
their linen cloth to
make I think it is important to note
that these are not rough hee sacks to
cover the
skin but that attention was paid to the
drape and the design of the
Garment this illustrates how weaving has
literally been a sight of innovation for
thousands of
years another way of thinking about the
Innovation embedded in textile making
processes is the ability to tell stories
through cloth
as with this tapestry here which details
scenes of the Trojan
War notice the attention paid to the
cloth worn by the characters represented
in this
tapestry these ornate designs would have
taken considerable time for a skilled
Weaver to make by hand when the jakar
loom was invented in
1804 by Joseph Marie jard this process
was mechan ized allowing for patterns to
be quickly reproduced and
replicated here's an example of what
that Loom looks
like in Europe before the jacard system
a Weaver's assistant known as a draw boy
had to sit on top of a loom and manually
raise and lower its threads to create
ornately patterned
cloth this was obviously slow and
laborious the key to the success of
jaar's intervention was through its use
of interchangeable cards upon which
small holes were
punched which held instructions for a
weaving
pattern and we can see that
here for each Square on the paper that
has not been painted in the card maker
punches a hole in the
card for each painted
Square no hole is punched
when a card is pushed through a matrix
of pins in the jard mechanism the pins
pass through the punched holes and hooks
are activated to raise their warp
threads so then you have companies like
IBM using this punch card technology
developed in the 1800s to make ornate
cloth for their own computational
machines conceived almost 100 years
prior by mathematicians and inventors
Charles bab Charles babage and aah
Lovelace in 1843 love lace would State
rather prophetically the analytical
machine or the analytical engine weaves
algebraic patterns just as the jard loom
weaves flowers and
leaves here you see how this Loom
technology then gets used to build
stronger comp Computing systems of which
people have always been a
part moving from making calculations on
a solo desk to holding data in a
room-sized
computer and the year after I was born
in 1981 IBM releases their
microcomputer so remember how I said
that weaving has been a sight of
Innovation for thousands of
years well here we are today and through
this remarkable opportunity with the
cryptech metaverse lab I've been able to
offer my own innovation in the field of
Memorial
making an area of creative and cultural
production which has not received the
cultural reimagination necessary to keep
Pace with the
time we're used to thinking about
Memorial um as it's depicted on the left
cast bronze in a Public Square
unchanging um but I believe that we need
memorials that breathe as we
breathe memorials that can change as we
change in relationship to our
losses we need memorials whose
compositions can change with every new
note or individual photograph or
drawing we all need to act as artists
and use the stuff of Our Lives to create
the contemplative space we
need which can encourage others who may
be going through a similar
thing I encourage you to take the first
step down the
stairs and explore the
space you never know who you can learn
from or be comforted by with a note you
leave
behind join me in creating a new new
kind of Memorial experience the first of
its
kind so that having faced losses in our
lives we can value the life we do have
more
vividly in my studio I'm interested in
using weaving as a ritual conceptual
framework to craft living structures
like this off the loom and in the
world I think that living structures can
be uh performed as memorials text or the
movement of human and more than human
behavior across a rolling
Planet thinking as a poet threads of
connection between disperate experiences
can be
discovered moving as a weaver the fates
of seemingly disconnected stories
objects and beings are interlaced and
transmuted into a greater
hole
for
[Applause]
Hannah is
this thank you so much
andira I wish we could sit and talk but
I will say because we're trying to catch
up on a little time sound how grateful I
am that we got to experience so much
Dimension to your work to the history of
your work to the context that it's
situated within and also I feel so like
this sort of embodied experience of both
being the Weaver and being woven now and
having this opportunity to go and
continue
to have this place that you not only
have created inside of the VR space but
in many other forms to connect with
Memorial as practice so I just want to
thank you for your work and I want to
encourage everyone to go and spend some
time with indir because it truly is such
a gift every time that I get to talk to
you and learn more about your practice
and the parts of the story that have
afforded the um way that you kind of
present your work into the world now
it's just such a pleasure so thank you
and and if you want to catch a little
endira story ask her about her
collaboration with oh I'm so sorry if
you want to ask them a story H ask about
their collaboration with Amanda Gregory
uh it's a pretty special story of how to
translate their work into sound